Add development docs for Language and code conventions (#8745)
explosion/spaCy: extra/DEVELOPER_DOCS/Code Conventions.md

```

Don't be shy about including comments for tricky parts that _you_ found hard to implement or get right – those may come in handy for the next person working on this code, or even future you!

If your change implements a fix to a specific issue, it can often be helpful to include the issue number in the comment, especially if it's a relatively straightforward adjustment:

```diff
+ # Ensure object is a Span, not a Doc (#1234)
if isinstance(obj, Doc):
    obj = obj[obj.start:obj.end]
```

### Including TODOs

It's fine to include code comments that indicate future TODOs, using the `TODO:` prefix. Modern editors typically format this in a different color, so it's easy to spot. TODOs don't necessarily have to be things that are absolutely critical to fix fight now – those should already be addressed in your pull request once it's ready for review. But they can include notes about potential future improvements.

```diff
+ # TODO: this is currently pretty slow
dir_checksum = hashlib.md5()
for sub_file in sorted(fp for fp in path.rglob("*") if fp.is_file()):
    dir_checksum.update(sub_file.read_bytes())
```

> If any of the TODOs you've added are important and should be fixed soon, you should add a task for this on the project board or an issue on the issue tracker to make sure we don't forget to address it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If any of the TODOs you've added are important and should be fixed soon, you should add a task for this on Explosion's internal Ora board or an issue on the public issue tracker to make sure we don't forget to address it.
```

```diff
- try:
-     token = doc[i]
- except IndexError:
-     token = doc[-1]

+ if i < len(doc):
+     token = doc[i]
+ else:
+     token = doc[-1]
```

Even if you end up having to check for multiple conditions explicitly, this is still preferred over a catch-all `try`/`except`. It can be very helpful to think about the exact scenarios you need to cover, and what could go wrong at each step, which often leads to better code and fewer bugs. `try/except` blocks can also easily mask _other_ bugs and problems that raise the same errors you're catching, which is obviously bad.

If you have to use `try`/`except`, make sure to only include what's **absolutely necessary** in the `try` block and define the exception(s) explicitly. Otherwise, you may end up masking very different exceptions caused by other bugs.

```diff
- try:
-     value1 = get_some_value()
-     value2 = get_some_other_value()
-     score = external_library.compute_some_score(value1, value2)
- except:
-     score = 0.0

+ value1 = get_some_value()
+ value2 = get_some_other_value()
+ try:
+     score = external_library.compute_some_score(value1, value2)
+ except ValueError:
+     score = 0.0
```

> ### Avoid lambda functions

Reviewer 2: I think this section is a bit strongly worded. There's still tonnes of times where lambdas are the right thing to do, e.g. when you're passing a key to a sorting function.

The issue is really when you're passing lambdas into somewhere where they might get stored. So people should be a bit careful of using them, but avoiding lambdas entirely could make for some ugly code.

Author: Sure, we can phrase this so it sounds less strict. I do think there are very few cases where lambdas are the right choice. Sort keys that are short enough to be readable in one line are the main exception.

Btw, fun fact: The only places in spaCy where we currently use lambdas are serializers, `get_examples` callbacks and tests. Nothing else.

+     result.append({"key": key, "scores": scores_dict})
```

### Composition vs. inheritance

Although spaCy uses a lot of classes, **inheritance is viewed with some suspicion** — it's seen as a mechanism of last resort. You should discuss plans to extend the class hierarchy before implementing. Unless you're implementing a new data structure or pipeline component, you typically shouldn't have to use classes at all.

### Don't use `print`

The core library never `print`s anything. While we encourage using `print` statements for simple debugging (it's the most straightforward way of looking at what's happening), make sure to clean them up once you're ready to submit your pull request. If you want to output warnings or debugging information for users, use the respective dedicated mechanisms for this instead (see sections on warnings and logging for details).

The only exceptions are the CLI functions, which pretty-print messages for the user, and methods that are explicitly intended for printing things, e.g. `Language.analyze_pipes` with `pretty=True` enabled. For this, we use our lightweight helper library [`wasabi`](https://github.com/ines/wasabi).

## Naming

> Naming is hard and it's probably one of the main things we discuss in our regular PR meetings. We don't expect you to come up with the perfect names for everything you write – finding the right names is often an iterative and collaborative process. That said, we do try to follow some basic conventions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Naming is hard and often a topic of long internal discussions. We don't expect you to come up with the perfect names for everything you write – finding the right names is often an iterative and collaborative process. That said, we do try to follow some basic conventions.
```

Errors can be referenced via their code, e.g. `Errors.E123`. Messages can also include placeholders for values, that can be populated by formatting the string with `.format()`.

```python
class Errors:
    E123 = "Something went wrong"
    E456 = "Unexpected value: {value}"
```

```diff
if something_went_wrong:
-    raise ValueError("Something went wrong!")
+    raise ValueError(Errors.E123)

if not isinstance(value, int):
-    raise ValueError(f"Unexpected value: {value}")
+    raise ValueError(Errors.E456.format(value=value))
```

As a general rule of thumb, all error messages raised within the **core library** should be added to `Errors`. The only place where we write errors and messages as strings is `spacy.cli`, since these functions typically pretty-print and generate a lot of output that'd otherwise be very difficult to separate from the actual logic.

> ### Re-raising exceptions

Reviewer 2: Nervous about mentioning this, as it can cause a lot of trouble. I think we use this much too often ourselves, so I'm reluctant to encourage people to author code with it.

Author: This section is about re-raising exceptions in general, though, and I think the way we're using it is fine? Re-raising from an existing exception is a really good pattern IMO and has zero impact on the traceback. It only changes the wording of how the re-raised exception is presented in Python ("...was the direct cause..."). I think this is very good and useful.

Re-raising from `None` is more problematic if it's used incorrectly, but I don't think we're really doing that. We previously had a problem where we were polluting people's traceback with chained errors that were not relevant to the exception we were re-raising. Maybe we just need a more explicit warning here that it should only be used for exceptions we can very clearly anticipate, and that it requires careful error messages.

If we anticipate possible errors in third-party code that we don't control, or our own code in a very different context, we typically try to provide custom and more specific error messages if possible. If we need to re-raise an exception within a `try`/`except` block, we can re-raise a custom exception.

> [Re-raising `from`](https://docs.python.org/3/tutorial/errors.html#exception-chaining) the original caught exception lets us chain the exceptions, so the user sees both the original error, as well as the custom message with a note "The above exception was the direct cause of the following exception".

Reviewer 2: I think we should use `raise from` extremely carefully, as long tracebacks are much preferable to swallowing the error. So I'd probably not mention it in the docs.

+ if score < 0.0:
+     raise ValueError(Errors.789.format(score=score))
```

Otherwise, the user will get to see a naked `AssertionError` with no further explanation, which is very unhelpful. Instead of adding an error message to `assert`, it's always better to `raise` more explicit errors for specific conditions. If you're checking for something that _has to be right_ and would otherwise be a bug in spaCy, you can express this in the error message:

```python
E161 = ("Found an internal inconsistency when predicting entity links. "
        "This is likely a bug in spaCy, so feel free to open an issue: "
        "https://github.com/explosion/spaCy/issues")
```

### Warnings

Instead of raising an error, some parts of the code base can raise warnings to notify the user of a potential problem. This is done using Python's `warnings.warn` and the messages defined in `Warnings` in the `errors.py`. Whether or not warnings are shown can be controlled by the user, including custom filters for disabling specific warnings using a regular expression matching our internal codes, e.g. `W123`.

```diff
- print("Warning: No examples provided for validation")
+ warnings.warn(Warnings.W123)
```

> When adding warnings, make sure you're not calling `warnings.warn` repeatedly, e.g. in a loop, which will clog up the terminal output. Instead, you can collect the potential problems first and then raise a single warning. If the problem is critical, consider raising an error instead and to exit early.

Reviewer: This didn't parse for me, and I think "raising an error" implies exiting early anyway.

```suggestion
When adding warnings, make sure you're not calling `warnings.warn` repeatedly, e.g. in a loop, which will clog up the terminal output. Instead, you can collect the potential problems first and then raise a single warning. If the problem is critical, consider raising an error instead.
```

Author: Maybe we could make this "raising an error instead (which will exit early)"? I just wanted to include this as a reminder that it's generally good to exit as early as possible if you're anticipating an error.

Reviewer: Sure!

The test suite also provides [fixtures](https://github.com/explosion/spaCy/blob/master/spacy/tests/conftest.py) for different language tokenizers that can be used as function arguments of the same name and will be passed in automatically. Those should only be used for tests related to those specific languages. We also have [test utility functions](https://github.com/explosion/spaCy/blob/master/spacy/tests/util.py) for common operations, like creating a temporary file.

### Constructing objects and state

Test functions usually follow the same simple structure: they set up some state, perform the operation you want to test and `assert` conditions that you expect to be true, usually before and after the operation.

> Tests should focus on exactly what they're testing and avoid dependencies on other unrelated library functionality wherever possible. If all your tests needs is a `Doc` object with certain annotations set, you should always construct it manually:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tests should focus on exactly what they're testing and avoid dependencies on other unrelated library functionality wherever possible. If all your test needs is a `Doc` object with certain annotations set, you should always construct it manually:
```
